in Canada you have a constitutionally
protected right to complain about your
university professors and to complain
about the quality of the courses that
you are enrolled in and there is a
recent high court precedent backing up
that right not just in theory but in
practice as important as that right
maybe I use it very judiciously I
actually very rarely complaining here on
my youtube channel and my blog elsewhere
about particular professors I very
rarely criticize them and that's because
in the university context believe it or
not I'm a natural conformist I have a
great deal in common with my professors
I very often like them as people even if
I think they're bad professors several
of the university professors in Asian
Studies at UVic went out to dinner with
me took me out for coffee talked to me
about their personal lives not just
their research but their marriages and
divorces many of these people really
were my personal friends that was the
case at University of Regina before and
so on and forth even at University of
Toronto there were professors are
related to personally and got along well
with even if I thought they were doing a
very poor job in teaching their courses
in their conducts you know as educators
so I'm actually not the sort of
character who would abuse this
constitutionally protected freedom but
it's important to note that this freedom
doesn't require you to be reasonable it
doesn't require you to use polite
language and it very definitely protects
you as a student against the tendency of
university professors and administrators
to punish you or to try to intimidate
you into silence if you dare to
criticize your professors or if you dare
to discuss on the Internet publicly how
poor the quality of education you're
receiving may well be I just received a
really nasty email from professor and
Ally lab and I interpret this email
you'll you'll see it in just a moment I
interpret this as trying to intimidate
me into silence trying to dissuade me
from complaining about the quality of
the courses at UVic and complaining
about the conduct of a particular
professor dr. Anna Lee lap is the kind
of person I would probably enjoy eat
lunch with and having a conversation
about common research interest she
probably didn't read my CV she probably
read my resume before sending with his
email you know what doctor an allele app
has a distinguished career in
researching prostitution human
trafficking etc in Thailand Laos
Cambodian Southeast Asia is a Research
Institute based in Bangkok dealing with
women's rights prostitution human
trafficking sex slavery those are all
issues I did years of research on I have
several publications on and that I was
employed in NGO charity nonprofit sector
research honor that I also worked as an
editor that can have a nonfiction on
done a lot of reading in there in that
area I've done a lot of travel and had a
lot of direct experience and picked up
anecdotes from talking other researchers
probably you may not realize it dr. Anna
Lee lap would probably enjoy sitting
down having a casual conversation with
me about past research experience I
think we need to take a really
evidence-based approach to thinking
about what does it mean for someone to
be traffic the head of the department
currently professor Richard Fox who's
never had a conversation meet his career
began studying Buddhism and Sanskrit
well I have more than 10 years behind me
within Buddhism I work more on tera
vaada Buddhism thus pally
was my language of scholarship I really
did learn to read and write Pali at this
ancient language I did years of research
on tera vaada Buddhism in Southeast Asia
again including Cambodia Laos Thailand
but also Sri Lanka Myanmar a little bit
different geographical efficient it's a
guy were not natural enemies in many
ways in terms of past research interests
we would be natural friends but if you
give these people administrative duties
and you give them management problems
very often they will respond to that
incredibly negatively and with
frustration and they will be punitive
and they will abuse the tiny amount of
authority they have over students and
why partly because the educational
background they have is not in
management dr. Anna Lee left so she
works in gender studies women's studies
history etc from my perspective politics
also right but she's not someone whose
education and training prepared her to
deal with a man
real problem like a conflict between a
student and a professor or maybe one
professor or another preser the type of
management issues that inevitably and
inexorably are part of having a large
multimillion-dollar university
institution right Richard Fox I could
say something similar writing an
examination about Sanskrit an ancient
Buddhism doesn't prepare you to deal
with this situation we're in right now
and that's why having constitutional
protection for students rights is so
important here's an anonymously authored
article from the gauntlet in 2011 Keith
and Steven Pridgen took a law society
course in 2007 taught by our Union Mitra
after the course was over a student
started a Facebook page called quote I
no longer fear hell I took a course with
Aruna Mitra on which both of the Pridgen
brothers commented according to students
took the class Mitra who was teaching
the class for the first time claimed
that she was a full-time professor when
in fact she was only a sessional
instructor she also made wildly
inaccurate statements like claiming that
the Magna Carta was an agreement between
First Nations people in the government
the prison's brothers and other members
of the class were called for a U of C
disciplinary hearing where keith was put
on probation for 24 months and both were
ordered to never again post a family
Tory material but a member of the
university community the case went to
real court where a Court of Queen's
Bench judge ruled the UFC lacks the
right to prevent students from
commenting on the quality of instruction
they receive because the Charter of
Rights and Freedoms protects freedom of
speech and again let's face it it's much
more meaningful it's much more important
that university students can criticize
the University then it is important for
you and I to be able to criticize a
restaurant or a shoe store if we are
dissatisfied with what we've managed to
purchase there there is to some extent a
client holistic relationship between
professor and student but there are much
more meaningful much more important
things that the stakes are really very
high including for the future career of
these students the Wikipedia article if
you look at the top half here underlined
in red I'm just drawing attention to how
universities in Canada will often try to
intimidate students into silence with
charges that are wildly irrelevant to
the
actual conduct when you look at the
definition of so-called non academic
misconduct this is supposed to be
punishing students for like stealing
unauthorized removal and/or possession
of university property this this wasn't
written at all to dissuade students from
criticizing their professors are
complaining both the quality of courses
and yet that is the purpose this was put
to the tiny amount of power that
professors have in positions of
administration and management then gets
wielded against students in this really
fundamentally immoral and I may say
unconstitutional way the court of the
Queen's Bench of Alberta found the
University of Calgary to be wrong in
prosecuting ten students including the
prison brothers in regard to the
comments made about a professor on
Facebook the key ruling in this case was
that the universities are not exempt
from and these students were in fact
protected under Section 2 B of the
Charter of Rights and Freedoms ok so
what was the conflict what was the
criticism I dared to offer what was the
complaint that resulted in these
professors trying to intimidate me into
silence you all want to know here we go
take a look professor Tian I am
requesting a meeting with you to set the
teacher pupil relationship on a better
basis for the future the last time we
had a meeting in your office was in 2015
your behavior at that meeting was so
negative that had tremendous impact on
the next five years of my life I think
you genuinely do not know how negative
those long-term impacts of be please
take a few minutes to speak to me
positively to set the relationship on a
more positive basis as I am now
returning to you Vick attached to this
email is a sample of my Chinese
handwriting and two very different
contacts one careful and slow the other
rapid and slapdash did I receive a reply
from the professor I wrote you from
professor Tian no did I receive a reply
from professor Fox the head of the
department no no no no no professor Fox
only wrote back to inform me that he was
going to have to refer such a serious
matter to the Dean the Dean of you
manatees and here's the intimidating
email RC from the teen please compare
this to the response you get to any kind
of customer service complaint where you
are a customer spending tens of
thousands of dollars on the product in
this case an education that cannot lead
to any kind of employment for me
whatsoever
it responds to your email I refer back
to the letter you received from dr. John
Archibald Dean of the humanities in 2015
in that email dr. Archibald indicated
the investigation your plan complaints
and the responses to them had been
concluded dr. Archibald also stated that
further repetition of these complaints
to your instructors or the chair crosses
the line to harassment with the
attendant consequent fifty tip that
letter do you notice a slight mismatch
between the letter I sent to the
professor and this threat it's not a
veiled threat it's not an implied threat
this direct threat I received from the
Dean that I'm somehow doing something
immoral that I will be punished for in
quote unquote repeating complaints to
his truck sir was that even was there
even a complaint in the message that I
sent to Professor Jones yet what was
that a complaint I think I sent a letter
saying hey look let's try to set this
relationship on a more positive basis if
we're actually gonna be in the classroom
together and we're actually gonna be
worried together and now you're telling
me something that was addressed debunked
and resolved back in 2015 you're telling
me that if I dare to complain if I dare
to complain about the content or quality
of the course of an if I dare to
complain about a professor that would
cross the line into harassment you're
dead wrong professor an allele app
you're dead wrong on the contrary
that's my constitutionally protected
right and that precedent in court proves
I don't have to use polite language I
don't have to write in an academic style
or published in an academic journal I
can make such outrageous statements as
complaining that a course is worse than
going to hell that was even in the title
on that Facebook or I'm allowed to have
just
as much freedom of speech as a sports
commentator complaining about the
pitcher in a baseball game I'm allowed
to use all the shocking and lurid
metaphors of someone writing a column in
the local newspaper I have full freedom
of speech period protected in the
constitution of this country and you
tell me professor an allele app do you
think we would be living in a better
world if I did not have that freedom of
speech do you think we'd be living in a
better world if you and professor john
tian and professor richard fox succeeded
in intimidating students like myself
into silence i think that would be a
worse world for us all